===== PAGE 1 =====
The SavantThe SavantThe SavantThe SavantThe Savant


===== PAGE 2 =====
TheTheSavantSavant
An elf cleaned her glasses
with the corner of her cloak as
the dust settled. The emperor had
paid her a large sum to locate this
forgotten place, and after months of
pouring over ancient maps, she had
pieced together the one-lost location
of the primeval temple. Now, she had
a decision to make. If she reported the
location of the temple to her benefactor,
it would be ruthlessly stripped of valuables.
But, if she kept the location to herself, she
could preserve the ancient knowledge
contained within. For a savant, knowledge
is more precious than any sum of gold.
An aging human warrior silently assessed the
soldiers under his command. They were exhausted
and almost out of supplies. It was the tenth night of a
brutal siege, and the graying commander knew that no
reinforcements were coming to their rescue. He was too
old to be of much use in battle, but if his soldiers followed his
orders without any hesitation, they might have a chance of
survival. He stood up, and for what could very well be his final
time, drew his weathered sword from its scabbard.
A young dwarf bent over his unconscious comrade in the
midst of battle, his hands shook as he examined his brother's
wounds. His clan had spent a small fortune sending him to
study at the finest university in the land. All the hours spent in
lectures and libraries, all for this moment. He thought back to
his lessons and began to dress his brother's wounds.
The characters described above are just some examples of
the adventuring intellectuals known as Savants. Armed with
only their wit, they aid their allies and outwit their enemies.
Magnificent MindsMagnificent Minds
There are many wonderfully intelligent people in the world,
but few are true Savants. Born with the innate desire to learn
anything they can, and the potential for genius-level intellect,
Savants spend their lives learning anything that those around
them are willing to teach. Often recognizable at an early age,
a Savant's unquenchable hunger for knowledge draws them
to the great libraries, universities, and other places of higher
learning. They are willing to go to any lengths to unlock the
secrets of the world, often turning to lives of adventure. For
a Savant, no price is too steep for the promise of discovery.
Intense FocusIntense Focus
Savants are hyper-focused on their chosen area of study and
often become obsessed with learning all they can about their
specialty. In their quest for discovery, Savants are willing to
set aside any conviction, political, religious, or otherwise, to
acquire the information they seek. To them, their desire for
knowledge is more important than loyalty to any ideology.
Often at great personal cost, Savants will not stop their
research until they have made a revolutionary discovery in
their area of study. It is not unusual to encounter one such
scholar far from the safety of a university and its libraries.
CreatingCreatingYour SavantYour Savant
When creating a Savant, consider their upbringing and the
level of their formal education. Were they a star pupil at the
finest university gold could buy? Or, were they a child of the
streets, fighting for every scrap of knowledge that they could
get their hands on? Maybe their mind was trained from birth
to be the perfect analytical tool for a noble house or family.
Also, consider why your Savant would rely on only their
intellect rather than use their gifts in pursuit of the arcane or
in the service of a higher power. Are they cursed to never be
able to produce even the most mundane spell? Or, have they
sworn never to rely on the magic that destroyed their family?
Finally, why did your Savant become an adventurer rather
than live the life of an academic? Have they advanced beyond
normal study and look forward to the endless discoveries of
adventure? Or, have they always been a student of the world?
Multiclassing and the Savant
If your group uses the optional multiclassing rule,here is everything you need to know if you chooseto take at least one level in the Savant class.Ability Score Minimum. As a multiclass character,you must have a minimum Intelligence score of 13in order to take a level as a Savant, or to take a levelin another class if you are already a Savant.Proficiencies Gained. If Savant is not your initialclass, here are the proficiencies you gain when youtake your first Savant level: light armor, one skill ofyour choice from the Savant skill list, and one setof artisan's tools of your choice.


===== PAGE 3 =====
Class FeaturesClass Features
Hit PointsHit Points
Hit Dice: 1d8 per Savant level.
Hit Points at 1st Level: 8 + your Constitution modifier
Hit Points at Higher Levels: 1d8 (or 5) + your Constitution
modifier per Savant level after 1st
ProficienciesProficiencies
Armor: Light armor
Weapons: Simple weapons, rapiers, shortswords, whips
Tools: One set of artisan's tools of your choice
Saving Throws: Intelligence, Wisdom
Skills: Choose two from Arcana, History, Insight,
Investigation, Medicine, Nature, Persuasion, or Religion
Starting EquipmentStarting Equipment
As a Savant, you start with the following equipment:
(a) a simple weapon of your choice or (b) a shortsword.
(a) a light crossbow and 20 bolts or (b) two daggers.
a set of artisan's tools, leather armor, and scholar's pack.
Quick BuildQuick Build
You can make a Savant quickly by using these suggestions.
First, make Intelligence your highest ability score, followed
by your Dexterity. Second, choose the Noble background.
Adroit AnalysisAdroit Analysis
You can focus your mind to analyze your foe. Beginning at 1st
level, you can use a bonus action to analyze one creature you
can see within 60 feet, designating it as your Focus. While it
is your Focus, you gain the following benefits against it:
When you hit it with an attack, or if you observe it for 1
minute, you learn one of the following characteristics of
your choice: its highest ability score, lowest ability score,
Armor Class, speed, creature type, or one special sense.
You can use your Intelligence, instead of your Strength or
Dexterity, for weapon attack and damage rolls against it.
Once per turn when you hit it with an attack, you deal 1d6
bonus damage. The bonus increases as you gain levels, to
match the Intellect Die column of the Savant table above.
Any attacks it makes against you have disadvantage.
It remains your Focus until you choose to end this effect
(no action required), or it is hidden from you, if you designate
another creature as your Focus, or if you are incapacitated.
While you have a Focus, you cannot cast or concentrate on
spells or use other features that require your concentration.
Predictive DefensePredictive Defense
Your analytical style of fighting allows you to better anticipate
and dodge attacks. Beginning at 1st level, when you calculate
your Armor Class in light or medium armor, or when you are
unarmored, you can use Intelligence in place of Dexterity.
Scholarly PursuitsScholarly Pursuits
Never satisfied with your current state you are always looking
to expand your educational horizons. At 1st level, you master
one Scholarly Pursuit from the list at the end of this class.
You master one additional Scholarly Pursuit of your choice
when you reach 4th, 7th, 13th, and 18th level in this class.
The Savant
Level   PB  Features IntellectDie
1st +2 Adroit Analysis, Scholarly PursuitsPredictive Defense ─
2nd +2 Genius Intellect, Sharp Mind d6
3rd +2 Academic Discipline d6
4th +2 Ability Score Improvement d6
5th +3 Peerless Insights,Swift Reflexes (2) d8
6th +3 Discipline feature d8
7th +3 Keen Awareness d8
8th +3 Ability Score Improvement d8
9th +4 Predictive Expert d8
10th +4 Discipline feature d8
11th +4 Unrivaled Genius d10
12th +4 Ability Score Improvement d10
13th +5 Swift Reflexes (3) d10
14th +5 Unyielding Will d10
15th +5 Discipline feature d10
16th +5 Ability Score Improvement d10
17th +6 Flawless Analysis d12
18th +6 Swift Reflexes (4) d12
19th +6 Ability Score Improvement d12
20th +6 Incomparable Intellect d12
Genius IntellectGenius Intellect
Your mind is capable of wondrous bursts of insight, fortitude,
and inspiration. At 2nd level, you gain the following benefits:
Intellect DieIntellect Die
These increased analytical abilities are represented by your
Intellect Die, which begins as a d6. You start knowing three
such features that make use of this Intellect Die: Calculated
Flourish, Potent Observation, and Wondrous Insight.
At certain levels, your Intellect Die increases in size, as
shown in the Intellect Die column on the Savant table.
If one of your Intellect Die features requires a creature to
make a saving throw, the save DC is calculated as follows:
Intellect save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus
+ your Intelligence modifier
Calculated FlourishCalculated Flourish
When a creature you can see targets you with a melee attack,
you can use a reaction to add one roll of your Intellect Die to
your Armor Class against that attack. If this Flourish causes
the attack to miss, you can move up to 10 feet as part of the
same reaction without provoking opportunity attacks.


===== PAGE 4 =====
Potent ObservationPotent Observation
When another creature that can hear you hits your Focus
with an attack, you can use your reaction to grant it a bonus
to its damage roll equal to one roll of your Intellect Die.
Wondrous InsightWondrous Insight
When another creature that can hear you makes an ability
check using a skill or tool that you are proficient in, you can
use your reaction to grant it a bonus to its roll equal to one
roll of your Intellect Die. You can do so after it rolls the d20.
Sharp MindSharp Mind
Your ability to analyze your surroundings is unrivaled. Also at
2nd level, you can use a bonus action on your turn to take the
Help or Search actions, or make an Intelligence ability check
to recall information about a creature or object you can see.
Moreover, you can use the Help action to aid a creature in
attacking your Focus, so long as you are within 5 feet of the
attacker, even when you are not within 5 feet of the target.
Academic DisciplineAcademic Discipline
At 3rd level, choose an Academic Discipline to best represent
your Savant's studies: Archaeologist, Investigator, Naturalist,
Physician, or Tactician; all detailed at the end of this class.
Your Academic Discipline grants you features at 3rd level,
and again when you reach 6th, 10th, and finally 15th level.
Ability Score ImprovementAbility Score Improvement
When you reach 4th level, and again at 8th, 12th, 16th, and
19th level, you can increase one ability score of your choice
by 2, or two ability scores of your choice by 1. As normal, you
can't increase an ability score above 20 using this feature.
Peerless InsightsPeerless Insights
Your mind and its capabilities are truly wondrous. Beginning
at 5th level, if another creature that can hear you is forced to
make a saving throw, you can use your reaction to grant it a
bonus to its roll equal to one roll of your Intellect Die.
Moreover, whenever you make an Intelligence, Wisdom, or
Charisma saving throw you can add one roll of your Intellect
Die to your saving throw, so long as you are not incapacitated.
Swift ReflexesSwift Reflexes
The speed that you observe and react to your surroundings is
incredible. Beginning at 5th level, you have a second reaction
you can take each round, but only one reaction per trigger.
At certain Savant levels you gain additional reactions, you
gain a third reaction at 13th level and a fourth at 18th level.
Keen AwarenessKeen Awareness
You are always prepared for danger. Beginning at 7th level, so
long as you aren't incapacitated you cannot be surprised and
you add your Intelligence modifier to your initiative rolls.
Also, when you roll initiative you can use Adroit Analysis to
designate a creature you can see within range as your Focus.
Predictive ExpertPredictive Expert
You are seemingly always one step ahead of your chosen foes.
Starting at 9th level, when your Focus forces you to make an
ability check or saving throw, you have advantage on your roll.
Unrivaled GeniusUnrivaled Genius
Your intellect has risen to near-supernatural heights. At 11th
level, your Genius Intellect features gain the benefits below:
Calculated FlourishCalculated Flourish
If your reaction causes the attack to miss, you can make one
melee attack against your attacker as part of your reaction.
Potent ObservationPotent Observation
You can use this reaction whenever another creature that can
hear you attacks a creature that you can see. Moreover, if you
use this reaction when another creature attacks your Focus,
you can add two rolls of your Intellect Die to its damage roll.
Wondrous InsightWondrous Insight
When you use Wondrous Insight on another creature's ability
check you roll your Intellect Die twice and use the higher roll.
Unyielding WillUnyielding Will
At 14th level, you gain proficiency in Charisma saving throws,
and you have advantage on any saving throw you are forced
to make to resist the charmed and frightened conditions.


===== PAGE 5 =====
Flawless AnalysisFlawless Analysis
Beginning at 17th level, you can use your action to flawlessly
predict your Focus's next move and alert your allies. Until the
start of your next turn, your Focus has disadvantage on every
ability check, attack roll, and saving throw. Also, creatures of
your choice that can hear you have advantage on any saving
throw your Focus forces them to make until your next turn.
Once you use this feature you must finish a short or long
rest before you can use it again.
Incomparable IntellectIncomparable Intellect
At 20th level, you realize your true potential. Your Intelligence
score increases by 4, up to a maximum of 24. Also, if you roll
an Intellect Die and roll lower than your Intelligence modifier,
you can replace the roll with your Intelligence modifier.
Academic DisciplinesAcademic Disciplines
Choose one of the following Academic Disciplines that best
represents the genius and skill of your Savant: Archaeologist,
Investigator, Naturalist, Physician, or Tactician.
ArchaeologistArchaeologist
Specializing in the study of forgotten civilizations, uncharted
lands, and ancient places, Archaeologists bring the light of
knowledge to the dark and deadly places of the world. Doing
their best to uncover the wisdom of ages long past, they often
tend to feel a sad kinship with the civilizations they study and
go to great lengths not to destroy or offend their memory.
Student of HistoryStudent of History
3rd-level Archaeologist Discipline feature
You gain proficiency in History and Investigation. Whenever
you make a check with either of these proficiencies you gain
a bonus to your roll equal to one roll of your Intellect Die. If
you are already proficient in either skill you gain proficiency
in another skill from the Savant skill list in its place.
Also, if you spend 1 minute examining an object you are
touching, you can ascertain its value, origin, and age. If it has
magic properties, you learn them as if you had cast identify.
Adventuring AcademicAdventuring Academic
3rd-level Archaeologist Discipline feature
Your time in ancient places has given you insights into arcane
items and honed your instincts. You gain the benefits below:
You gain a climbing speed equal to your walking speed.
When you make a saving throw related to a trap, you gain
a bonus to your roll equal to one roll of your Intellect Die.
You ignore all class, race, and alignment requirements for
attunement and use of magic items, scrolls, and potions.
Intelligence is your spellcasting ability for magic items.
You can cast and concentrate on spells from magic items,
scrolls, and potions while you are using Adroit Analysis.
Daring DeterminationDaring Determination
6th-level Archaeologist Discipline feature
You are well acquainted with danger. Whenever you make a
Dexterity saving throw, or an ability check related to a trap,
you add one roll of your Intellect Die to the result of your roll.
Also, if you use your action to use a magic item, potion, or
scroll you can make one weapon attack as a bonus action.
Lore MasterLore Master
10th-level Archaeologist Discipline feature
You constantly study every myth, legend, and folk tale
you come across. If you observe a person, place, or object
for at least 10 minutes, you mystically recall information
about it as if it were the target of a legend lore spell.
The target of this feature does not need to be of legendary
importance in order for you to gain information. Though, if
there is no relevant lore about the target you learn nothing.
Finally, when you use a magic item, you use your Intellect
save DC for its effects unless the item's save DC was higher.
Master ArchaeologistMaster Archaeologist
15th-level Archaeologist Discipline feature
Your familiarity with ancient magic has given you insight into
its workings. You gain resistance to all damage from spells.
Also, when you finish a short rest, you can touch one magic
item that normally regains its charges at dawn, and it regains
expended charges equal to your Intelligence modifier.
InvestigatorInvestigator
Masters at unraveling mysteries, conspiracies, and secrets of
all kinds, Investigators possess an uncanny ability to read the
intent of others. They often dedicate their lives thwarting any
who deceive the innocent and take advantage of the common
trust. Their considerable intellect and eye for the truth stand
in the way of thieves, shapeshifters, and corrupt politicians.
Student of TruthStudent of Truth
3rd-level Investigator Discipline feature
You gain proficiency in Insight and Investigation. Whenever
you make a check with either of these proficiencies you gain
a bonus to your roll equal to one roll of your Intellect Die. If
you are already proficient in either skill you gain proficiency
in another skill from the Savant skill list in its place.
Your intuitive nature grants you the following benefits:
Whenever you make an Insight or Perception check you
can choose to use your Intelligence in place of Wisdom.
When you take the Search action, you gain information as
if you spent a full minute searching instead of one action.


===== PAGE 6 =====
Rough & TumbleRough & Tumble
3rd-level Investigator Discipline feature
You have gained some unsavory skills while fighting shadows
in the underbelly of civilization. You learn to speak, read, and
decode Thieves' Cant, the language of the criminal world.
Also, your unarmed strikes deal bludgeoning damage equal
to a roll of your Intellect Die + your Strength modifier on hit.
When you hit your Focus with a melee attack on your turn,
you can force it to make a Dexterity saving throw against your
Intellect save DC. On a failure, it is either blinded, deafened,
or it cannot speak until the start of your next turn, or if the
target is Large or smaller, you can choose to knock it prone.
Devious FlourishDevious Flourish
6th-level Investigator Discipline feature
Your intuition grants you a heightened sense for openings in
your foe's defenses. When you use Calculated Flourish and
cause the attack to miss, you can force the attacker to make
a Dexterity saving throw against Rough & Tumble as part of
the same reaction, instead of moving.
Also, whenever your Focus fails the saving throw against
Rough & Tumble, you can choose for it to take bludgeoning
damage equal to one roll of your Intellect Die.
Finally, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn,
you can make one unarmed strike attack as a bonus action.
Illicit ContactsIllicit Contacts
6th-level Investigator Discipline feature
You have become familiar with the criminal elements of
society. You have advantage on Charisma checks while you
are communicating with another creature in Thieves' Cant.
You also master the Secrets & Whispers Scholarly Pursuit,
   If you have already mastered this Scholarly Pursuit you can
      instead master your choice of Perfect Recall or Traditions.
          Piercing Gaze          Piercing Gaze
             10th-level Investigator Discipline feature
              Your gaze sees through the most intricate deceptions
                and conspiracies. You instantly detect the presence
                of illusions and shapeshifters, and you are instantly
                  aware if your Focus is lying to you.
                  Also, if your Focus fails its saving throw against
                 Rough & Tumble, you can cause it to be stunned
               for the duration in place of the normal effects.
          Master Investigator          Master Investigator
            15th-level Investigator Discipline feature
            Your sense for truth has reached near-supernatural
              levels. You gain Truesight out to a 30-foot radius.
                Also, when you hit your Focus with an attack, or
               use Potent Observation against your Focus, you can
                cause the attack to become a critical hit. You can
                  only do so once between each short or long rest.
Naturalist                                   Naturalist                                   
                      The Naturalist's classroom begins at the edge of
                       civilization. They are scholars of the wilderness,
                      and will go to great lengths to preserve nature as
                     it exists, free from the influence of civilization. A
                    true Naturalist is a conservationist of the wild and
                      an expert at predicting weather, identifying toxic
                        and medicinal plants, caring for animals, and
                       guiding others safely through the wilderness.
Student of NatureStudent of Nature
3rd-level Naturalist Discipline feature
You gain proficiency in both Nature and Survival. Whenever
you make a check with either of these proficiencies you gain
a bonus to your roll equal to one roll of your Intellect Die. If
you are already proficient in either skill you gain proficiency
in another skill from the Savant skill list in its place.
Also, whenever you make an Animal Handling or Survival
check you can use your Intelligence in place of Wisdom.
Naturalist's JournalNaturalist's Journal
3rd-level Naturalist Discipline feature
You compile your research on fantastical flora and fauna in a
Naturalist's Journal. Over the course of 1 hour, which can be
during a short or long rest, you can take notes in your Journal,
detailing your current environment or a specific beast, plant,
or monstrosity (such as a bear or griffon) that was your Focus
within the last 24 hours. If your Journal is lost, you can spend
1 hour adding each old entry to a new Journal from memory.
You have advantage on all Intelligence checks related to all
environments and creatures detailed in your Journal.
Finally, once per turn when you make an attack roll against
a creature that is detailed in your Journal, you gain a bonus to
your attack roll equal to one roll of your Intellect Die.


===== PAGE 7 =====
SurvivalistSurvivalist
6th-level Naturalist Discipline feature
You are a master tracker of wild creatures and any that would
threaten them. You can designate a creature as the Focus of
your Adroit Analysis by analyzing signs of its passing, such as
tracks or marks, even if you can't see the creature. Creatures
also remain your Focus even if they become hidden from you.
You also master the Physical Fitness Scholarly Pursuit. If
you have already mastered this Scholarly Pursuit, you instead
master your choice of either Falconry or Perfect Recall.
Wilderness GuideWilderness Guide
6th-level Naturalist Discipline feature
Your knowledge allows you and your companions to thrive in
the wild places of the world. If you are in an environment that
is detailed in your Journal, you and up to ten other creatures
that travel with you gain the following benefits:
You can ignore the effects of nonmagical difficult terrain.
You cannot become lost, except by magical means.
You can move stealthily while traveling at a normal pace.
Advanced StudiesAdvanced Studies
10th-level Naturalist Discipline feature
Your knowledge of the wild does not stop with the mundane.
You can add specific dragons, giants, oozes, and undead to
your Naturalist's Journal. For example, you could add notes
on a young blue dragon, fire giant, or ghast to your Journal.
Your cutting-edge understanding of the natural world also
grants your Naturalist's Journal the following extra benefits:
Creatures. You treat the specific creatures in your Journal
as if they were your Focus, even if they are not currently
designated as the Focus of your Adroit Analysis.
Environments. You, and up to ten other creatures
that are traveling with you can ignore the effects of
magical difficult terrain and have advantage on their
saving throws to resist the hostile effects of any of the
environments you have detailed in your Journal.
Call of the WildCall of the Wild
10th-level Naturalist Discipline feature
As an action on your turn, you can force one beast, plant, or
monstrosity within 30 feet to make a Wisdom saving throw
against your Intellect save DC, so long as it can hear you. On
a failure, it is charmed by you for 1 hour. Creatures that have
an Intelligence score equal to half your Savant level or higher
automatically succeed on this saving throw.
While a creature is charmed, it is friendly to you and your
allies. As a bonus action, you can issue a verbal command to
the creature, which it does its best to obey on its next turn.
Once it completes your command it defends itself to the best
of its ability until you command it again with a bonus action.
If the creature takes damage, it repeats its Wisdom saving
throw at the beginning of its next turn, ending this charm on
a success. When it does so, you can use a reaction to shout at
it and subtract one roll of your Intellect Die from its roll.
Once a creature succeeds on its saving throw against this
feature it is immune to it for 24 hours. You can only have one
creature charmed in this way, and charming another creature
ends this effect for any other charmed creatures.
Once you successfully charm a creature you must complete
a short or long rest before you can use this feature again.
Master NaturalistMaster Naturalist
15th-level Naturalist Discipline feature
Your knowledge of the natural world surpasses that of nearly
all other scholars. You can add specific creatures of any type,
          except for constructs and humanoids, to your Journal.
        Also, the duration of Call of the Wild increases to 8
                                         hours, and creatures detailed in your
                                            Journal have disadvantage on their
                                            initial save to resist Call of the Wild.
                                              Finally, you have advantage on
                                             attack rolls against any creatures
                                                detailed in your Journal.


===== PAGE 8 =====
PhysicianPhysician
Physicians use their considerable intellect to heal the
sick and tend to the wounded. They spend their lives
studying the anatomy and biology of mortals,
and use this knowledge to keep their
allies in top condition and cripple
foes. Using this medical training,
they offer aid to those that do not
have access to the luxury of divine
magic or other healing spells.
Student of MedicineStudent of Medicine
3rd-level Physician Discipline feature
You gain proficiency in Medicine and Sleight of
Hand. Whenever you make a check with either of
these proficiencies you gain a bonus to your roll
equal to one roll of your Intellect Die. If you are
already proficient in either skill you instead gain
proficiency in another skill from the Savant list.
Moreover, your medical training and insight
into anatomy grants you the benefits below:
Whenever you would make a Wisdom
(Medicine) check, you can make an
Intelligence (Medicine) check instead.
If you spend 1 minute examining your Focus, you
can identify any disease, poison, or curse affecting it.
Once per turn, if you hit your Focus with a weapon
attack, you can reduce its speed by a number of feet
equal to 5 times your Intelligence modifier (minimum
of 5 feet) until the beginning of your next turn.
Combat MedicCombat Medic
3rd-level Physician Discipline feature
You have trained to administer medical aid to others, even in
the midst of battle. When you finish a short or long rest, you
can touch one Healer's Kit and cause it to regain a number
of uses equal to your Intelligence modifier (minimum of 1).
Also, your knowledge of medicine grants you the Combat
Medic abilities below, each of which takes an action to use.
Whenever you use one of these Combat Medic abilities,
you can expend one use from a Healer's Kit you are holding
to use the maximum Intellect Die result, instead of rolling.
Adrenaline Jolt
You touch another creature that is either blinded, charmed,
deafened, frightened, poisoned, or suffering from a disease,
and it instantly repeats a saving throw to end that condition
with a bonus to its roll equal to one roll of your Intellect Die.
Dress Wounds
You touch another creature and it gains temporary hit points
equal to one roll of your Intellect Die. This has no effect on a
creature at its hit point maximum, and once a creature gains
temporary hit points from this feature, you can't target it with
this feature again until those temporary hit points are gone.
Healing Surge
You touch another living creature and it can expend one of its
Hit Dice to regain a number of hit points equal to its Hit Die
roll + its Constitution modifier + one roll of your Intellect Die.
If you use this ability on a living creature at 0 hit points, it
is instantly stabilized even if it does not expend a Hit Die.
Field DoctorField Doctor
6th-level Physician Discipline feature
You have learned to move about the field of battle unscathed
to better administer aid. You can take the Dash or Disengage
action as a bonus action on each of your turns.
Also, whenever you use your action to use a Combat Medic
ability, you can make one weapon attack as a bonus action.
Medicinal ExpertiseMedicinal Expertise
10th-level Physician Discipline feature
Your techniques push allies to their physical limit. When you
use a Combat Medic ability you can empower it as described
below. You can use an empowered ability on each individual
creature once with no negative effects for it. However, each
subsequent time you use an empowered ability on a creature
before it finishes a long rest, it gains 1 level of exhaustion.
Restorative Jolt
You can use Adrenaline Jolt to automatically end one of the
following conditions: blinded, charmed, deafened, frightened,
paralyzed, petrified, poisoned, stunned, a reduction to one of
its ability scores, or a reduction to its hit point maximum.
Resuscitating Surge
You can use Healing Surge to return a creature that has died
within the past minute back to life, so long as it expends one
Hit Die as part of this ability. This has no effect on creatures
that die of old age, and it cannot restore missing body parts.


===== PAGE 9 =====
Suture Wounds
If you use Dress Wounds on a living creature for 10 minutes
without interruption, you can reattach any severed limbs or
digits, and it gains a number of temporary hit points equal to
the difference between its current and maximum hit points.
However, the temporary hit points from this feature are
instantly dispelled if the creature regains any hit points.
Master PhysicianMaster Physician
15th-level Physician Discipline feature
You can perform legendary feats of medicine. You can use
two empowered Combat Medic abilities on each individual
creature between each a long rest with no negative effects.
Also, if you roll an Intellect Die as part of a Combat Medic
ability, you add your Intelligence modifier to your total roll.
TacticianTactician
All successful monarchs, conquerors, and revolutions have a
master Tactician who is responsible for their success. These
leaders are always one step ahead of their foes and a plan for
every eventuality. They know maneuvers that lead to victory,
and those that end in ruin. Alone, a Tactician is no threat, but
with powerful allies, they become a formidable fighting force.
Student of WarStudent of War
3rd-level Tactician Discipline feature
You gain proficiency in History and Persuasion. Whenever
you make a check with either of these proficiencies you gain
a bonus to your roll equal to one roll of your Intellect Die. If
you are already proficient in either skill you gain proficiency
in another skill from the Savant skill list in its place.
Your study of warfare also grants you the benefits below:
You gain proficiency in two gaming sets of your
choice, and whenever you make an ability
check that uses any gaming set, you add
one roll of your Intellect Die to the roll.
You gain proficiency in medium armor,
shields, and with all martial weapons
that do not have the heavy property.
Tactical CommanderTactical Commander
3rd-level Tactician Discipline feature
You can use your knowledge of tactics to direct
your allies on the battlefield. You learn to use
the following Orders detailed on this page:
Attack Order
When you take the Attack action, you can issue this Order in
place of an attack, targeting another creature that can see or
hear you within 30 feet. The next time that creature takes the
Attack action before the start of your next turn, it can make
one additional weapon attack as part of its Attack action.
Defensive Order
When you take the Attack action, you can issue this Order in
place of an attack, targeting another creature that can see or
hear you within 30 feet. That creature gains the benefits of
the Dodge action until the beginning of its next turn.
Maneuvering Order
When you take the Attack action, you can issue this Order in
place of an attack, targeting another creature that can see or
hear you within 30 feet. That creature can use its reaction to
move up to its speed without provoking opportunity attacks.
Support Order
When you take the Attack action, you can issue this Order in
place of an attack, targeting another creature that can see or
hear you within 30 feet. That creature can immediately take
the Help, Hide, Search, Study, or Use an Object action.
Strategic SuperiorityStrategic Superiority
6th-level Tactician Discipline feature
You can attack twice, instead of once, whenever you take the
Attack action on your turn. Moreover, you can take the Dash,
Disengage, or Help action in place of one of these attacks.
Tactical GeniusTactical Genius
10th-level Tactician Discipline feature
Your genius allows you to control the flow of each battle from
the outset. When you roll initiative, you can issue an Order to
one creature before any other creatures have a chance to act.
   Also, when another creature that can hear you makes an
   attack against your Focus, you can use Potent Observation
   to add a roll of your Intellect Die to its attack roll. You can
    do so after it rolls, but before you know if its attack hits.
   Master Tactician   Master Tactician
   15th-level Tactician Discipline feature
   Your words inspire heroism in your allies. Whenever you
  issue an Order to a creature you can grant it temporary hit
 points equal to your Intelligence modifier (minimum of 1).


===== PAGE 10 =====
Scholarly PursuitsScholarly Pursuits
Listed below are the Scholarly Pursuits available to a Savant.
To learn a Scholarly Pursuit you must meet its prerequisites.
If a Pursuit allows you to add one roll of your Intellect Die
to an ability check that already has this benefit, you roll your
Intellect Die twice and use the higher result instead.
InstructionInstruction
You have dedicated a significant amount of your studies to
the art of education. Over the course of 1 hour, you can teach
one humanoid that can hear and understand you one skill,
tool, or weapon proficiency, or one language you know.
The creature gains proficiency in that tool, skill, or weapon,
or learns to speak that language until it completes a long rest.
Perfect RecallPerfect Recall
You can recall picture-perfect details from things that you
commit to memory. If you spend at least 1 minute observing
an object or creature, you can perfectly recall any observable
information about that creature or object point in the future.
For example, you could perfectly memorize a map, a page
from a tome, a work of art, or the appearance of a creature.
Quick StudyQuick Study
You learn exceptionally fast. You gain proficiency in one skill
or tool, or learn to speak and read a language of your choice.
Over the course of 1 hour, which can be during a short or
long rest, you can replace this proficiency or language with
another proficiency or language of your choice, so long as you
have an example to learn from, such as a teacher or manual.
AstrologyAstrology
Prerequisites: 4th-level Savant
You are a disciple of heavenly bodies and use this knowledge
to twist fate. You gain proficiency in Arcana, and whenever
you make an Intelligence (Arcana) check, you gain a bonus to
your roll equal to one roll of your Intellect Die.
During each long rest that you can see the night sky, roll a
d20 and record that number. Once before the end of the next
long rest, you can choose to use that roll in place of the d20
for ability check, attack roll, or saving throw before you roll.
FalconryFalconry
Prerequisites: 4th-level Savant
You have spent many months learning to train birds of prey.
You gain proficiency in Perception, and whenever you make
a Wisdom (Perception) check, you gain a bonus to your roll
equal to one roll of your Intellect Die.
You gain a trained Falcon which uses the Hawk statblock
from the Player's Handbook, but it has an Intelligence score
of 8. You and your Falcon can communicate simple ideas with
each other using simple gestures and sounds. Your Falcon is
unwaveringly loyal to you and obeys your commands.
In combat, your Falcon shares your initiative and acts on
your turn. It can move and use its reaction on its own, but it
only takes the Dodge action unless you use a bonus action to
command it to take an action from its stat block, or another
action. If you are incapacitated, your Falcon acts on its own.
If your Falcon falls to 0 hit points it makes death saving
throws as a player character would. Should your Falcon die,
your special skills allow you to track and train another Falcon
over the course of an 8-hour period using 5 gp worth of bait.
LinguisticsLinguistics
Prerequisites: 4th-level Savant
You are a student of language and the art of the spoken word.
You gain proficiency in Persuasion, and whenever you make
a Charisma (Persuasion) check, you gain a bonus to your roll
equal to one roll of your Intellect Die.
You also know how to speak, read, and write a number of
additional languages equal to your Intelligence modifier.
Physical FitnessPhysical Fitness
Prerequisites: 4th-level Savant
You know that the key to a healthy mind is a healthy body. You
gain proficiency in either Athletics or Acrobatics. Whenever
you make an ability check with that skill, you gain a bonus to
your roll equal to one roll of your Intellect Die.
Also, you gain a climbing speed and a swimming speed
equal to your walking speed, and when you make a running
jump, you add your Intelligence modifier to the distance.
RiddlesRiddles
Prerequisites: 4th-level Savant
You have spent a great deal of time learning to speak in both
riddles and rhymes. You gain proficiency in Deception. When
you make a Charisma (Deception) check, you gain a bonus to
your roll equal to one roll of your Intellect Die.
Also, when you speak, you can choose to speak in Riddles.
When you do so, you appear to be speaking normally, but you
include hidden messages laced in your rhyming words.
Over the course of 1 hour, which can be during a short or
long rest, you can teach a creature with an Intelligence of 11
or higher to understand your Riddles and respond in kind.
Secrets & WhispersSecrets & Whispers
Prerequisites: 4th-level Savant
You have a knack for knowing where to eavesdrop and the
right person to bribe. You gain proficiency in Stealth. When
you make a Dexterity (Stealth) check, you gain a bonus to
your roll equal to one roll of your Intellect Die.
Whenever you spend a long rest in a settlement, you can
spend 1-hour gathering local rumors to learn of a significant,
even secret, event which occurred in there in the last week.
TheologyTheology
Prerequisites: 4th-level Savant
You are a dedicated scholar of various holy texts and sacred
rituals. You gain proficiency in Religion, and whenever you
make an Intelligence (Religion) check, you gain a bonus to
your roll equal to one roll of your Intellect Die.
You also learn to speak, read, and write Celestial. Finally,
you learn the ceremony spell, but you can only cast it as a
ritual. For you, the ritual only takes 10 minutes, and you can
cast it without the material components once per long rest.
TraditionsTraditions
Prerequisites: 4th-level Savant
You are a student of local cultures, politics, and traditions.
You gain proficiency in History, and whenever you make an
Intelligence (History) check, you gain a bonus to your roll
equal to one roll of your Intellect Die.
Whenever you make a Charisma check to interact with a
local ruler or otherwise important figure and you incorporate
a local custom or tradition, you have advantage on your roll.


===== PAGE 11 =====
The SavantThe SavantThe SavantThe SavantThe Savant
A brilliant new class for the world's greatest
roleplaying game. Outwit your foes and aid your
allies with five different Academic Disciplines
based on your particular genius: Archaeologist,
Investigator, Naturalist, Physician, or Tactician!
Version 5.2
Created by /u/laserllama
Artist Credits:
Cover - Sara Winters - Compulsive Research
Page 1 - Eelis Kyttanen - Weatherlight Stalwart
Page 3 - Mitchell Malloy - Frantic Search
Page 4 - Anna Steinbauer - Seek the Wilds
Page 5 - Lucas Graciano - Marchesa's Infiltrator
Page 6 - Lucas Graciano - Borderland Explorer
Page 7 - Bram Sels - Valiant Rescuer
Page 8 - Howard Lyon - Star Pupil
Back - Adam Paquette - Jace's Sanctum
Additional laserllama Homebrew content
can be found for free on GM Binder.
Support me on Patreon for access to four
exclusive Academic Disciplines:
Engineer - Occultist - Tinker - Voyager
Check out the Savant: Expanded for a multitude
of additional Feats, Magic Items, Scholarly
Pursuits, and four Academic Disciplines!


===== PAGE 12 =====
 
This document was lovingly created
using GM Binder.
If you would like to support the GM Binder developers,
consider joining our Patreon community.WWW.GMBINDER.COM